Clarified LRO pattern & added VLRO pattern (#501)
Microsoft/api-guidelines: azure/Guidelines.md

<a href="#lro" name="lro"></a>
### Long-Running Operations (LROs)

A _long-running operation (LRO)_ is an operation that should execute synchronously but due to services not wanting to maintain long-lived connections (>1 seconds) and load-balancer timeouts the operation must execute asynchronously. For this pattern, the client initiates the operation on the service and then the client repeatedly polls the service (via another API call) to track the operation's progress/completion. See the [Long Running Operations section](./ConsiderationsForServiceDesign.md#long-running-operations) in
Considerations for Service Design for an introduction to the design of long-running operations.

NOTE: Use the _Very Long-Running Operations (VLRO)_ guidelines for operations that should execute asynchronously where clients should not logically block waiting for the operation to complete.
 

> <a href="#lro-response-time" name="lro-response-time">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** implement an operation as an LRO if the 99th percentile response time is greater than 1 second and when the client should poll the operation before making more progress.

Reviewer: Is this a reasonable restatement of the guideline?
```suggestion
<a href="#lro-response-time" name="lro-response-time">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** implement an operation as an LRO if the 99th percentile response time is greater than 1 second and the client cannot make progress until it determines that the operation is complete.
```

<a href="#lro-no-patch-lro" name="lro-no-patch-lro">:no_entry:</a> **DO NOT** implement PATCH as an LRO. If LRO update is required, it must be implemented using the POST-Action pattern.

There are two basic patterns for long-running operations in Azure. The first pattern is used for a POST and DELETE
operations that initiate the LRO. These return a `202 Accepted` response with a JSON status monitor in the response body.
The second pattern applies only in the case of a PUT operation to create a resource that also involves additional long-running processing.
For guidance on when to use a specific pattern, please refer to [Considerations for Service Design, Long Running Operations](./ConsiderationsForServiceDesign.md#long-running-operations).
These two patterns are described in the following two sections.

#### POST or DELETE LRO pattern

A POST or DELETE long-running operation accepts a request from the client to initiate the operation processing and returns

> a [status monitor](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-6.3.3) reflecting the operation's progress.

Reviewer: Why is "reflecting" better than "that reports"?

<a href="#lro-returns-operation-location" name="lro-returns-operation-location">:ballot_box_with_check:</a> **YOU SHOULD** include an `Operation-Location` header in the response with the absolute URL of the status monitor for the operation.

> <a href="#lro-operation-location-includes-api-version" name="lro-operation-location-includes-api-version">:ballot_box_with_check:</a> **YOU SHOULD** include the `api-version` query parameter in the `Operation-Location` header with the same version passed on the initial request but expect a client to change the api-version value to whatever a new/different client desires it to be.

Reviewer: This change isn't necessary because lro-status-monitor-accepts-any-api-version already states that the GET on the status monitor must accept any api-version.

#### PUT operation with additional long-running processing

> For a PUT (create or replace) requiring long-running processing:

Reviewer: The original wording was intentional. The create or replace happens synchronously -- it does not "require long-running processing". Rather, there is some "additional long-running processing" that must be done _as a result of the create or replace_ that the client may need to track.

<a href="#lro-put-returns-operation-location" name="lro-put-returns-operation-location">:ballot_box_with_check:</a> **YOU SHOULD** include an `Operation-Location` header in the response with the absolute URL of the status monitor for the operation.

> <a href="#lro-put-operation-location-includes-api-version" name="lro-operation-location-includes-api-version">:ballot_box_with_check:</a> **YOU SHOULD** include the `api-version` query parameter in the `Operation-Location` header with the same version passed on the initial request but expect a client to change the api-version value to whatever a new/different client desires it to be.

Reviewer: This change isn't necessary because lro-status-monitor-accepts-any-api-version already states that the GET on the status monitor must accept any api-version.

#### Obtaining status and results of long-running operations

> For all long-running operations, a client repeatedly polls the service to GET the operation's status monitor resource to obtain the current status of the operation.

Reviewer: The client does not need to "repeatedly poll the service" to "obtain the current status of the operation". One GET is sufficient to get the current status.

<a href="#lro-status-monitor-retry-after" name="lro-status-monitor-retry-after">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** include a `Retry-After` header in the response to GET requests to the status monitor if the operation is not complete. The value of this header should be an integer number of seconds to wait before making the next request to the status monitor.

<a href="#lro-status-monitor-post-action-result" name="lro-status-monitor-post-action-result">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** include the `result` property (if any) in the status monitor for a POST-Action long-running operation when the operation completes successfully.

<a href="#lro-status-monitor-no-resource-result" name="lro-status-monitor-no-resource-result">:no_entry:</a> **DO NOT** include a `result` property in the status monitor for a long-running operation that is not a POST-Action long-running operation.

<a href="#lro-status-monitor-retention" name="lro-status-monitor-retention">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** retain the status monitor resource for some publicly documented period of time (at least 24 hours) after the operation completes.

<a href="#vlro" name="vlro"></a>
### Very Long-Running Operations (VLROs)

> A _very long-running operation (VLRO)_ is an operation that should execute asynchronously. Typically, a VLRO can be identified when 1 or more logical clients need to get the result. For example, if one client initiates the operation and a different browser/client needs the result. An example would be a dashboard or portal that shows all the operations along with their status. In fact, the VLRO pattern offers a way to list all the operations while the LRO pattern does not. Also, the VLRO pattern does not expect a client to make no forward progress due to polling for the long period of time it takes to complete of the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _very long-running operation (VLRO)_ is an operation that executes asynchronously and may take an arbitrarily long time to complete. Because of the arbitrarily long execution time, there may be multiple logical clients accessing a VLRO result. For example, if one client initiates the operation and a different browser/client needs the result. An example would be a dashboard or portal that shows all the operations along with their status. In fact, the VLRO pattern offers a way to list all the operations while the LRO pattern does not. Also, the VLRO pattern does not expect a client to make forward progress due to polling for the long period of time it takes to complete of the operation.
```

> The VLRO pattern is very simple to implement.

Reviewer: I don't think we have a clear definition of the "VLRO pattern" at this point.

> <a href="#vlro-create-update" name="vlro-create-update">:white_check_mark:</a> **DO** implement a PATCH operation to create/update a VLRO service resource. The request/response schemas are identical. The client's request must specify any properties required to create/update the VLRO operation. The response includes the operations's properties as well as the status monitor properties. 

Reviewer: What is a "VLRO service resource". I think this is the first mention in this file. This should be clearly defined above before we refer to it here.
